
Hi. The age is 20. I'm a male, and I'm doing BSC commission in Asimbran University. So the first question, how would you describe your past understandings of climate change and its impact? So my past understandings of climate change and its impacts have been revolved around and revolved in scientific, research, historical data, and, historical data.

Climate climate change is a, as refers to the long long term shift in temperature, weather patterns, and atmospheric conditions. It's mainly because of human activities such as burning of fossil fuels, deforestation, and, industries. So the impacts I mean, we can start with the impacts of, like, climate change. Right? So, like, we know the I we can we know the world is physically hotter.

So from twenty two thousands to, like, twenty tens, the, I don't know the data, but I know there's a significant change in the global temperature. And we can see there are a lot of fluctuating temp, temperatures, currently in the world. And as and also speaking of which, because of fluctuating weather, temperatures are fluctuating, weather events. So, like, extreme event, weather events where, like, there are frequent droughts, wildfires, sudden floods due to rains. And, yeah, and we also know, as usual, from if you read through the news articles, we know that there are, there's a rise in sea level because of melting of glaciers.

And and last but not the least, like, the destruction of ecosystems by mankind for either for either in, mostly for industrialization. These are the I think these are the major impacts of it. To answer the second question, is there universities which focus on addressing climate change? For example, our university offers a course on climate study climate sciences and climate studies. And also they have a pro have a BSC program on environmental science.

So where so the these programs and courses help, the students to, understand about why the process of why, how climate science like, the, the climate changes. And they also they help in conducting research innovations such as, research and innovations on, on basically conducting studies on renewable energies, sustainable agriculture and climate modeling, which helps us to predict, like, what climate changes is. And also they put for they also, like, preach the ideas of, sustain sustainable practices in, many campuses adopt, and you can talk about our campus. For example, they adopt eco friendly initiatives such as liquid water harvesting and waste management, and also, policies, so, like, universities, are, for example, our universities collaborate with NGOs and industries to develop, climate solutions. And also, like, student engagement.

Our university for has many of many such initiatives such as, like, the sustainable farming and the sustainable club. So these are few of the practices where, like, mostly, I'm taking example from my university, which, where like Indian universities have address, address climate change. Yes, I think I've personally been involved in, climate related activities or initiatives on my own in campus. I don't remember exactly, but I think it was during the second semester where we had, we had a conference on about, like, climate change and, climate change. I was, I went to the, not conference more like, would you say a talk about climate change and, environment.

And also, so that's probably the, my experience about like this. It was very interesting. And it was, also to understand the perspectives of a researcher slash person who is in the field working and understanding the ground level, functions. How like, what, like, you can where they can see, like, changes. We only see, like, the superficial changes where, like, oh, there's, there's increasing in temperature and or rising of the, rising of the sea level, but, like, where there is a the researcher who came for the talk showed us, showed us about, like, evidence how, like, the minuscule changes that have been happening eventually, which, which pile up to make a huge change.

So I think that is one of that is what I remember from the talk. So yes. To answer the next question, whether, like, do I believe that university the university has the responsibility to lead an example in addressing climate change? I think universities, generally, universities are, are are need are responsible to lead lead by an example in addressing climate change. So like, because we are the future leaders of this world and the next and we we have to start taking care of the world also and so that we can preserve this current world for the coming future generations because we haven't found any other home yet.

Earth is the only home that can sustain humans currently, and we need to preserve it for the for the future, for the future generations. And I think, universities have been responsible for leading such examples. So and again, so some might even disagree saying, like, oh, they should focus more on academics or, as an activism. But what's what's the point of having a, a world where we can't live or are plagued with disease, health related diseases due to pollution. If, and only do research where if you don't have a clear thought or, like, clear idea of, like when you're combating, like, your health problems because of pollution and all climate changes.

So I think we need to think about that maybe. So to say the next question, I'll, I, I, I, if I'm aware of what like, any sustainable or climate action initiative is done by universities. So I believe, I think, I can on top of my head, I can only think about our universities, but I've also heard about like IITs and IACs researching on, like, renewable energies and making climate, climate models and sustainable development. So I have I remember, like, I see back, demonstrating about, like, new types of solar cells and, so I remember from that. Also, like, I've heard that, like, Ashoka University also implements, like, green infrastructure and energy efficient buildings.

On top of our campus is also very, it's in the favor of sustainability and they have a lot of practices for sustainability. I think most of us would know what are those practices. So I believe, like, the major objectives of, like, most of the campus, most of the famous cam campus is to reduce the carbon footprint through renewable energies and waste management and engage students and staff in sustainable programs. And also most importantly, like to influence the government, to make better policies regarding environment and climate change, and also make, asking the government to make, industrial change in industrial practices that favor the favor us, favor the environment. So again, the next question, like how students can contribute, to making our, our university a model for climates, climate actions.

I think like we, we as students play like a key role in pushing, you know, pushing the university to its sustainable practices, such as like advocating, like our university. I think like the example of our university, like we, advocate for strong, such general, practices such as, covered neutrality goals, green buildings, especially green buildings and renewable energy products, such as like the waste management plant in our university, and also using solar cells to heat solar, solar heaters to heat the water. And I think like also like the, the sustainable, farming club, they practice use, the practice farming using sustainable methods rather than organic methods, which tend to be good. But again, we, as we, as you say, like sustainable practices are organic methods don't favorably give us yield, but sustainable, practices give us, better yield as well as, sustainable growth of the, growth of the soil. So these were like few of the green areas that I can, I do remember of that?

And also they are university for if you're taking example of our university, they promote sustainable lifestyle in our campus by, like, reducing the use of single use plastics and advocating, for, refill stations like, refill stations and also encouraging like cycling, power transport rather than, motor vehicles. And these are a few of them. And also the most important awareness companies. I think our universities have bring, policymakers as well as people who are, policymakers and like industrial leaders who who are, in in climate sciences who come and give us talks about, like, how we could play a major role. So I believe again, so A plus I understood also encourages research on these lines.

So I feel like this are like, this is how, like, universities could with an example of our university, like how universities could, contribute for a model, contribute in making a model for climate action. And also, like, our university is, it's very committed towards, sustainable practices. I think that's the main selling point of our universities. And I don't think I need to go too in-depth about it because I think as a student in APU, I think you would know about most of its practices. Well, like, so the next question about, what changes would I like to see in universities addressing climate change?

I think, you know, city does a very good job on, climate, addressing climate changes and using, the promote the promote the students using, the promote students using sustainable transport such as like, the promote biking, carpooling, and using of the public transport. And I believe most of the changes that I was like, you know, improving waste management system, climate, a student led, climate initiatives are there. But, I could say, like, we could try to use reduce our energy bill in our campus by using auto dim lights rather than, like, fixed lights at fixed brightness. So, like, at dim at night, like, the lights could, like, automatically dim at dim rather than being stayed on for the entire time. So I know that there is a problem of security, but we could like reduce the brightness and reduce the consumption of energy.

I think that could in this and and university of our size, if we could reduce the energy bill, I think that could be an important thing. And the next question, whether like, like about like, can universities influence social, attitude attitudes towards climate change? I think our university does a good job in doing that. So again, again, they offer courses on climate, climate sciences, as well as climate study, climate sciences, and as well as an ESS program. So I think they, on, on the lines of, like, educating future leaders.

I think they have achieved that. And also they promote educate research, innovation in these, on these topics. So I think our university does a good job on doing that. I don't think I could, like, tell more about it. And to answer the last question, like, is there anything else like anything else that I would, I would like to share about how universities can share a model of our social, societal climate change?

I don't think so. As I was saying, I don't think so. A university, any university has has to do more thing more things because they already do a good job of, like, educating, engaging the local communities and policy makers. One of, so one of the benefits of a university is they have the ties and NGOs and all, and they do, really think about it. So I don't think anything else.

So I I university is doing a good job, and my final thoughts is, like, university is commits commits to a sustainable they don't, they just don't reduce the they won't just reduce the footprints, but also they shape the entire generation of climate conscious citizens who take up values in the, who take these values into the, in our, in their careers and politics and also in our daily lives. So I think, you know, it does a good job and I'll just end it there.