
My name is Krishna Gupta. My age is, 20 years old. I identify as male. My course is BScB in chemistry, learn studying at Azim Premji University. So the first question, how would I describe, my past understanding of climate changes and its impact?

As a child, I was always indulgent to learning about climate change or, pollution or in general as my, past self would call it, but I was a very, aware, kid because of my interest in climate science and its impact. I used to, as a child of, like, a teen or 15 years old, I used to, list watch a lot of, climate science related YouTube videos, which gave me an understanding of my surrounding itself. I grew up in a area which is surrounded by water or at, at least, river river water or any sort of water bodies, and, it has faced, a lot of in urbanization impacts. And, again, I relate, it it to climate change, and there was effects that I felt, from childhood to my current age. So I want to answer the first question in a brief term.

For me, climate change, would be, and its impact would be anything related to urbanization or human intervention because I have seen around me, what human intervention leads to, the disturbance in the nature's balance and how overuse of resources, have led to climate change in general and, again, how urbanization impacts, in, humans. The second question is what role do you think Indian universities play in addressing climate change? I think, Indian universities, play a very important part in climate change because, again, university, university level is a space where lot of awareness and knowledge about climate change, like, which is a very sim sensitive yet a very, misinformed, topic in the Indian, Indian ecosystem or Indian education system itself where, new discoveries new, new discoveries are happening each day, each month. But, again, due to some predominant, notion about climate change and its impact have been retained in the education system, but some, the latest technology, the least the latest research does not, get out that easily and that quickly to the, Indian masses or any Indian students. I think there, the Indian universities play a very important part of making sure that, at least the youth are, constantly and rapidly updated to the, new research and technologies in the climate change, space.

The third question is, do you believe university has a responsibility to lead by example in addressing climate change? Why or why not? The answer to this question of mine would be, yes. I think university has a very, huge responsibility to lead as an example for addressing climate change because I think university, what I understand from, what I understand about tackling, climate change is a place it should be led by people who are informed, first, resourceful, second, and with lot of networking. I think, Indian universities are, fall into this area, are a space where they have, where they're informed, where they are, resourceful, and where they have network.

So, to make any sort of impactful change, they have all the necessary things that would be needed. And, again, you know, a leading, university leading by example would be, again, a motivator or a visual example of how, when people with all the three mentioned domains, start working, then what it could do and what it could not. I think, university can be a very good example for that. Fourth question, are you aware of any sustainability or climate change initiative done by a university? If not, how effective do you think they are?

The answer to this question of, question number four would be, I live in Anzim Premji University. It's a it's a residential college, residential university, which has a 40 story, hostel system. And, again, it's situated into Sarajapura, which is on the outskirts of Bangalore. Bangalore is again known for its water scarcity problems. And, again, then, in the subset of Bangalore itself, we live in Sarajapura, where the problem of water where the problem water is heavily ingrained.

To counteract the water issue problem at least during summer months or in general to, make sure that we have a constant supply of water twenty four twenty four seven, 30 five 30 six, thirty three sixty five days of the year. We have a, we have the initiative where all the water, all the, water in from our hostels, gets recycled in a way that 90 I'm not sure of the percentage itself. But from my understanding, most of the water, like, basic water, any sort of, flush water, if I'm not wrong, again, gets recycled in a way that, again, it comes to our taps. We have a water treatment plant in our university itself where 90 to 95, 90 to 99 95% of the water that we consume, again, goes to this, water treatment plant and, again, is recycled in such a way that it is reusable. I think it's one of, the good examples where, it's solving a very real life problem, which is where which has current impact, not like, climate change in general, which is supposed to be a long term impact, very slow long term impact having on humans, which is which is not variable, but, like, water, which is, a constantly struggle topic.

So it is solving a very long term yet very short term problem using a very simple sustainable approach. So, yeah, I think it's very important, and I am think it's very effective also because, again, sad, in the summer months, I know Bangalore faces a lot of water crisis apart from that. But we still have very constant supply of water year round or, twenty four seven, in our university. I do know that some amount of water supply to our university, do come from, private uni private tankers and stuff, but most of the water consumption so far is made by the water that we, that has been recycled by our water treatment plant itself. The question number six, if I'm not wrong, it's have you ever personally been involved in any sort of climate related activities or initiative of your own university campus?

If so, could you describe any experience? So I have not directly been, involved in any sort of climate related activities or initiative in campus. But I did enroll to a course called CRX course, creative expression course in our university called us sustainable forms of, farming, and foraging. This course has been initiated for us to find better ways of being resourceful from our surrounding environment. It was supposed to teach us to resort to non dominant, crops or sources food sources like, we have been indulging into, for the course that I was enrolled in that specific unit.

We indulge into leave greens. Leave greens of sort that which are not predominantly found in, which are predominantly not used in the market of our current generation, which are present in the nature, but which are which are not used for come food consumption. Because, again, those are non dominant, players. It's not like though they do not fill fulfill, the health health requirements of or energy requirements. But it's just that they are, these crops, these leafy greens are less energy intensive.

They, they, they retain much more carbon into the, carbon in the soil, make sure that it does not escape into the environment. These are very climate friendly also because they are they resist drought. They are very climate resistant. So, again, they make sure, they are very good sources of consumption, to this ever changing climate ridden climate change ridden, world. Yep.

I I'm not sure if it's directly related to, the any climate change initiative or activity, but I think, again, in a way, me being aware of it or me understanding it in a way, in long term or short term do, do is kind of related to climate impact because, in future, I might convey this message or, we might, as a society, resort to more non dominated food sources, like, maybe because, if you think of rice or, rice or wheat, those are very dominant energy intensive, crops, big which are not that of, climate friendly. But if in future we do resort to this, climate friendly green leafy vegetables like or any sort of, vegetables in general, which are, very, very less resource consumed consumed or consumption based, then those are, I I think, very helpful for climate in general. Question number seven, how do you think students can contribute to making university a model for climate action? My answer to this would be, a sort of subset based question because I think, as a university, in we have we play a role of contributing to climate change and actions related climate change in a, subset based level.

Very initially, as students, we should have a model where students make sure, that their space their space occupied, which which is which is very much in their own hand, in their own control, is very, climate friendly, sustainable. Then when all the, maybe, sustainable goals are met in the concerned campus, then maybe those students can take initiative and step out the university and maybe go out to the neighborhood or trying to, trying to tackle the problems as a whole. And maybe we could have some programs, which apart from teaching the theoretical and understanding of climate change, we're also, indulging to solving real life problems in the neighborhood. Because, again, as the as a university, we do have courses or projects in the courses where are these where we are supposed to tackle very, real life climate change related problem in the campus itself. But the I think there's some shorthand, in the terms of activity or at least the indulgence or providing opportunities by the in university itself was where students start dealing with actual real life, non controlled, climate change related start indulging to non controlled climate related activities in the neighborhoods.

Maybe when some of the sufficient, major climate related problems, like maybe in the Sahaja Pura, neighborhoods, we could start tackling them. Then maybe we, as a student body, the university body of sustainability and climate change action related climate change action related committee could start tackling to Bangalore. Maybe I think this this sort of contribution subset based model would be better. And, again, I think, sustain, making sure as a university making as a university, making sure we build up a model which indigenous, region based or location based starts tackling, or starts making sure that we, fulfill all the sustainable development goals. I think it's one of the starting, it could be one of the good starts of making a climate change related model.

How do you pursue your own university administration committee to, climate action? Do you think they are doing it? This is the second last. This is, this is, I think, sixth or seventh eighth question to the, yeah. So do I think my university I don't think so.

The image of Azim Premji University in terms of at least the administration's image in terms of, tackling, sustainable goals and being, eco friendly or environment friendly is a bigger image than the actual action they that they put forth into the society or in university itself. One of the reasons, I would say this because, there's a space in our university, where, due to, where the entire place has been filled with palm trees. Palm trees in general, and palm trees, which are native yet not native to India. And and I again think, in a barren, really, moist, dry soil place like a Sarjapram instead of manipulating in such a way that, the resources that more resources are needed to be provided to sustain a garden of palm trees was not necessary just for the aesthetic purposes of it. And, again, maybe planting more native palm trees if they intended to plant palm trees because from, one of the interactions that I had with the gardening team, was that the Azim Premji mother, Azim Premji's mother or wife had an intention to have a palm tree in front of the welcome center, which I don't think so is a very which I think it's a very selfish or personally ego fulfilling move because, they should have not done that.

I I do get that Kishi might have some interest of she might like palm palm gardens. But that's not how you approach a problem because, again, the problem should have been approached to looking at the ecosystem of the Sahaja Para soil or what could have been beneficial for the kids because that space is a very well occupied. That's that is one of the spaces which is most publicly, access, spaces, which could have been been better in terms of being resourceful to students, being eco, native to the soil, and painless, how do I say? Resource consumption still. I get they might have planted some sort of, trees, which is again, some hybrid, which is drought resistant or very, resource less resource consumptive.

I might get that. I might, it might happen. My point is not that. My point is they should have planted some sort of native because, again, native plants have a very, because we know that, planting non native plants have a very huge role in the climate change, problem and, planting yeah. And do I think that, they are doing enough?

No. I don't. I absolutely don't think so they are doing enough. I think they are putting much more a persona of being sustainable rather than actually doing things, but I get that because they are a prior philanthropic university, which is based on philanthropic principle, which is again the black dark side of philanthropic principles is, seeing more than doing. Yeah.

I get that. But, Yeah. I don't think so. They're doing enough and not even enough. I don't think so.

They are achieving the bare minimum of what they are saying. Do I the next question is, do I think, universities have the potential to influence societal attitude and behaviors towards climate change? If so, how? Yeah. I do think so that my answer to this question would be yes.

I do think so. University play a very potential role in changing societal attitudes and behaviors towards climate change because I think, in India being a very, role model, searching your society where they look so look for some sort of idealistic role model who should who could who could lead the way to a better better university or a better society or better future. I think there the this lack of role model gap could be filled by cities because, again, the same three principle that I have mentioned before that units that are resourceful, they are informed, they have good networks. If only, like, for Sarajapura itself, the nearby areas of Sarajapura, at least at our university, are filled with debris, are filled with concrete, debris, which have because of the rapid urbanization of happening in the Sarajapura region. But, again, instead, if if in some sort of informatical way, we do RTI, we do complaints, we start in involving those things into our students' curriculum in some manner on in some sort of community based engagement way, then that would be better.

Maybe we could organize some workshops where, the stood I if I'm not wrong, they did do one workshop where the nearby societies, nearby, society associations like Prestige and then Sarajapura neighborhood group did come in the summer, previous summer, to learn about the better water consumption and water storing, techniques. But I think that was a very failed attempt of them not being able to communicate their, communicate their efforts or their ideas put forward to the community. Because I think it lacks some sort of, connection or some sort of perspective as to why would they or why would they not come. Because, again, it was with from a very, private centric commercialized, mindset. But, for if he wants or wants some sort of, change in the societal attitude and behavior, and it has to become come from a very compassionate, very kind hearted place where they actually want to some see see some change or not just to take do work just for taking credits.

Our next question, how do I think interdisciplinary collaboration among university departments can enhance climate solution? I think, being informed, making sure kids understand that as a science university as an undergraduate university with a good with ESS program, economic, ecological sustenance and environment program. And apart from any, any science related research, I think we could we should we should. We I think I'm we must do inter interdisciplinary collaborations among universities where we start thinking about, where we have a very community based approach, for tackling climate climate change. Because, again, I think climate change is a very, it's a non it's not a centered, pro problem, and it won't have a a one person centered solution also.

It has to come from the source community because it is for the community. Maybe, we could start visiting as a as a as a multi science disciplinary university. We could start collaborating with universities which have very specific, climate related problems. Maybe IFC, how I see or some other university where they have been doing some, good research of which, lack resources or some universities which have resources but lack the solution based approach where where they don't have any sort of solution for the concerned problem. Yeah.

I do think so that once that helps us, that helps students be much more active to the problems to it, make sure that they it makes sure it makes sure that students are much more, have have a very positive and active mindset towards the problem, and very community based approach to it. And perspective. I think it also helps us as students, of science, and the students of science awareness gets bigger and better perspectives of how we could solve problems which are which might sound very, tough in terms of tackling climate change. But, as collaborative efforts gets better and better and we get better perspective, it, we might come across something which which is very, timid or, novel, but it is it might solve some of the bigger problems. So I do think so.

Interdisciplinary, university action is must. Can you think of any example, where university, actions can change, had broad climate change, have had an okay. I don't think so. Any sort of university action, comes to my mind, which which was able to solve any sort of which was able to tackle any sort of wider, local environment problem or climate. Because, again, as I mentioned in question number four, the Azim Premji University's role in terms of sustainability and climate change related problems, it's much more verbal than action based.

And I think that the this is where university lags, because, again, it's based on philanthropic principles, which are much more, communal which were supposed to be much more communal, but are not in in the Indian, context. Second last question. What do you think are the biggest challenges university facing becoming models for climate action? Second last question. What do you think are the biggest challenges university face in becoming models for climate action?

I think, one of the biggest, challenge that our university face, is lack of intention. Lack of intention. And in if you're talking in terms of the, overall ecosystem in the, India, The university lacks some sort of resource and, again, a sort of direction or direction. Second. Third is, I think, some sort of, government backed policy changes, I think that that is also one.

Yeah. So in general, as an over encompassing overview to all the, bigger all the challenges that in Indian universities face in becoming models for climate action is lack of intention and some sort of motivation for, some change. Sec last question. Is there anything else you would like to share about how universities can serve as models for class, society, and climate action? I think, Yeah.

We can talk a lot about, of this key how universities are actually, have the potential to be very good models or serve as a very good models for society societal acts, climate change. But, much more of it is, again, getting the monetary value of the, the from the image of being a sustainable eco friendly and why university rather than actually putting, putting their foot to the dirty, backwaters of the climate change related to our act problems. So, yeah, I think they have a potential of lot, but I don't see any university doing worthwhile contributions to tackling India's, societal, climate change problems or at least trying their their best to become models of of the said so thing. Yeah. Yeah.

That's it. Thank you.