
Nineteen, eighteen, '20. Nineteen point '5. So in So how would you describe your past understanding of climate change and its impact? My past understanding of climate change was that I preferred it as a broad spectrum of all weather conditions of all the places. It was basically just the Amazon Rainforest and the glaciers of the Arctic and the Antarctic, but now I understand it's more than that.

It's combined empowered and it's combined, force of all the continents of all the countries, and one country lags behind makes every other country lag behind. And that is what is my past understanding of climate change, and, it has been evolving with many courses that I've taken during my university. And it's wonderful to have quite a bit of knowledge about climate and climate change. The temperature is rising, the glaciers melting, and the sea level is rising is amazing to know about and concerning at the same time. Okay.

Then what do you think about the role of APU in addressing this climate change? Certainly, from a personal understanding, I have not been a part of APU as often as I should be. And, I think that it's not my mistake. It's in my nature, but I do cons do concern myself with climate change. And, I've always heard from my friends that APU has been a part of climate change from the very beginning.

It's one of its core values and understanding that APU should enforce climate climate solutions in its memorandum and everything should be according to sustainability. And, what role does APO play is quite unfamiliar to me because as previously stated, I have not been, as often as an integral part of APU, but I understand that they always does something that is best in the interest of climate change. Okay. So do you believe APU has a responsibility to lead the led by the example in the climate change? Why or why not?

Can you repeat the question? I believe so very certainly that APU should address climate change, and it should and it should take responsibility because from my understanding, APU has always been the core core, like, it's part of the new university system that has been originating India. APU consider itself as, a school of integrated arts and sciences with where arts and sciences are both are taught together. So science students and art students both have understanding of each other's spectrum, and that's why I guess the APU should, obviously become an epitome of such things because it will increase chances of other universities such as APU and also other universities which have, not a better understanding of climate change to be able to understand such things as climate change and act upon it as they move on with their daily activities. Okay.

Okay. Okay. So are you aware of any sustainability or the climate action initiatives by camp by APU in on cam or on campus? Yeah. I do certainly have understanding of two or three initiatives that APU campus has taken into.

I guess sustainability sustainable farming is one of them where, you grow vegetables in a sustainable way that will not harm the environment, which is one of them. The other one is where you store the water the rainwaters. Rainwater harvesting is the other one that I have kind of heard about in APU campus is carried out in large scale. And the last one maybe, I guess, is about electricity saving, and, I do certainly have seen a big huge board about the electricity expense and the units of electricity, watts of watts of electricity that has been, used in the whole of the campus for a month or a week listed down at the main gate of the university. And, it's almost like lakhs of, you know, city units of electricity that has been used in every month, which was seen by me at the very start of the university period that I came into, and was surprising for me that seeing such a thing, because those things are not obviously seen in any other universities, and it's a really interesting thing that was seen by me for the very first time in the university.

And also I've seen various solar satellites, solar, lights being used, in street lights, street lamps in APU. That's also kind of fascinating. So how do you think students can contribute to making the university as a model for climate action? Means how they contribute? So from my perspective, it's going to be the same old answers about saving water, saving electricity, turning off the lights when you leave your room, turning off the fan when you leave your room, not using the lights of the whole classroom when you are alone in the classroom.

Just these small and precise steps can tremendously increase the chances of electricity saving and the water saving, and these are the minute things that I do follow in my, habits, and I prefer that should be followed by everyone as these are very small. So it will take probably hundreds of such small steps by every particular guy for, greater impact. How do you perceive the university's administration's commitment to climate chi climate action? Do you think, they are doing enough, or they need to improve in this? Not at all.

They are not doing enough because they most certainly do send us emails about climate change actions they have been carrying out, but nobody reads it. And, such a thing sending emails about their actions is certainly ridiculously stupid because if you're trying out various things, you should try to put it out in posters, try to send things send send a message in a really different way, in a unique way, such as, one memory of me is people who are not treating, vendors, cleaning vendors and laundry workers in a really good manner. So they took the pictures of, washrooms and kitchens and posted it on social posted it on in in workshop group and on screens and displayed on screens. So insurance will realize about their mistakes. Such a thing should be carried out by administrations of APU because that obviously has a greater impact than doing sending emails out to everybody, bringing in people who have knowledge about these things, but nobody certainly attends their talks.

And I don't see any fruitful in output from those talks. Certainly, for me, it's not worthwhile. And, the university should probably industry dimensions should, put in more work very important question. So, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, so that it's it's a student's contribute into that climate initiatives? Yeah.

As stated previously, university should try out new ideas, try come up with new brilliant ideas to make students realize that it is not just a problem of a small committee or a small amount of people. It's a problem of every other individual, and, they should also contribute. They should just not feed upon others' contribution. They should also be a part of the community and contribute to it. People should be aware.

As stated earlier, they should come up with really brilliant ideas and try to make a very big impact on their mentality so that they also realize that this is a this is for good for all of us, not just for me, not just for somebody else, but for the whole community as a community as a whole, it should be greater impact. That's kind of my thing. Okay. So do you think university has the potential to influence the societal attitudes and the behaviors towards the climate change? If so, then how?

I think they should it definitely influences many people because university as a whole has minds of young talents of thousands of capacities. And when they the university as a whole tries to do something new, it impacts the whole community. It gives a great message to the whole community, and such things have very humongous societal impact. One such university is JNU, if I think so, which, carries out really massive protests about various things. And those impacts are huge, and people do follow them.

And such initiatives, if carried out by our APU campus, then it should also go it should it will probably go trending, and probably we will others will also face, face this face the prime truth of climate change and understand its true impacts. Okay. So can you think of any examples where the APU section on climate change, have a big impact on, locally. I don't, particularly have any idea of a university which carries out such huge tasks, but I can, have a guess about it because people in the European countries, students in the European countries have, have a need in their minds to make it huge. So they particularly have, an understanding of climate change, and they, as a whole, as a university, do go on such protests.

And, they do protest, against various industries and miner mine coal mine companies and such companies where they harm the environment and they protest against such companies, and it's always in the news. So it's kind of fascinating for me. Also, The United States is has withdrawn itself from the Paris, Paris ex Paris Climate Committee. So the, you know, the students of the University of USA are definitely against that, definitely against the government of the United States. So what do you think are the biggest challenges in the city face in becoming the model for the climate action in context of APU, specifically?

In context of APU, I don't know about it as often. I don't have a particular answer for it because the challenges faced by universities such as APU in face in tackling climate change. One could be the maximum amount of students that are in APU. They can be a challenge because students come from various backgrounds and, trying to make them understand and delve into universities rules and regulations is quite hard. And, such things can have an impact, can be a challenging task for the university.

One such thing is that, there are many other examples, but I could not think of any of up right now from my brain. That's it, I guess. Yes. One of the things that, is a great challenge for the university is it encapsulates around 2,000 students, but it does not have the capacity to do store all the 2,000 students. So it has build up these so the universal the university building, university hostel itself is 40 floor, 40 story building, which is just, like, the AP campus itself is a cement jungle.

It's a jungle of cements. And, if you see any other university, old universities, they are built on various large campuses which encapsulates large amount of trees rather than buildings, which is another thing that APU currently faces, then they should, try to bring in more trees and less, these jungle cement buildings. Less than the population of these cement buildings. Okay. So last question.

Anything you want to say related to climate action? I don't have any personal opinion on climate change, but I do think it is concerning because, I did myself face lot of climate changing actions. A lot of consequences of climate change has been seen by myself, such as the degree of rising temperature in my village and in my and everywhere I go, the summers has gone a lot wild and, a lot, a lot, screen skin our skins go for our skin skin such as burning red when we walk in sun in summer. This is, like, 2023 was a hell of a year for every con every country, every state in India because Bangalore itself was burning hot. And when I went back to my state, Pune, it was quite relaxing there.

But when I went to my village in Bihar, it was also kind of burning hot. The temperature was almost 45 degrees in Bangalore and in northern parts of in southern parts of India. And we were facing a lot of humidity, humidity, and that is one of the things that is concerning for me because the climate is rising its temperature. Like, a dig a degree change. One degree Celsius change is also quite disturbing for many people because in past, a 0.1 degree Celsius change was seen over a period of hundred years, and now we are seeing a degree change, a degree Celsius change in just a single year, which is definitely concerning.

Average temperatures rising is concerning for me because I have not lived in such harsh conditions before. And, living in such harsh conditions is quite difficult for me and for everybody else, I think. So Okay. Thank you for your time and cooperation and lot of lesson.