
So hello. I'm Abhim Seyemwal, and I am a 19 year old male studying in a Azim Prem University. I'm pursuing BSC field physics course here. So climate change is a very, very big crisis. I didn't respond.

So climate change is a very, very big crisis in India and globally too. The climate change results in emission heat, extreme emission heat traps, weather events, and disruption to ecosystem and biodiversity. And as a personal experience, I'll say, because I've been to Bangalore like, like a lot. So earlier, it wasn't used to be this hot. Like before 2020, I don't think so the temperature in Bangalore has ever risen above 28 degrees.

But now as a student here, I'm I'm seeing that the temperature here is, like, above 30 degrees during the month of June June and all. Okay. I have it. Universities play universities play a very, like, a very big role in addressing climate change. Because you can in university, you can conduct researches.

You can educate students and empower the students to become more, inclined towards climate change and Okay. As Nelson Mandela also has said, like, the education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world. Just the same, you educate students to, prevent climate, extreme climate changes. It will be helpful for the eco ecosystem only. It will also provide a better sustainability in campuses, outside of campuses.

Students will also get to engage with different communities outside the outside the college, which will give them a good exposure towards, towards their courses or towards climate change or whatever they're studying. Personally, I have not ever been personally involved in a climate I don't know, ma'am. You have card deal. So in our school, we had instead of SUPW, we had this. So it's Bharat Abhiyan.

We have we do so it's Bharat Abhiyan. So I have not, personally have not been involved in any climate related activities on campus or off campus. Yes. Universities do have a responsibility in addressing towards climate change. By you, if the universities adopt sustainable practices, they'll it will be helpful in reducing the carbon footprint.

It will also promote a better climate action, which can inspire students, accommodation there to make mini to take meaningful step towards sustainable future. As far as I recall, there is, like, one by IITs. It was a research on renewable waste and climate resilient ag agriculture. Climate resilient agriculture. So some of the initiatives took, taken by India universities are one was taken by the IITs and ISC.

They researched on waste management, renewable energy, and climate resilient agriculture. One I recall is from JNU, Jawaharlal Nehru University. They what they did was they installed solar power and rain harvesting systems in their colleges. And these initiatives help the help these initiatives held in a varying, held in awareness of reducing environmental impact. And, also, our university has taken some initiatives like, this, rainwater harvesting system in our university as far as I think it is that.

It also rec it also recycles water too. What it does is it, basically classify the water into three parts which which is like one is which we use for drinking. One is one is which we use for a bathroom and hand washer and all. One is for flush systems. So you can see that our university also have taken taken some initiatives towards, towards this climate and towards this climate change that is happening in Bangalore.

I think, students do have a role in contributing, to make the university a model for climate change. Like, student can participate in initiative driven by government and their colleges. They can all the students can also participate in I mean, no. And the students can also organize awareness campaigns in their colleges and or outside of outside of their colleges. They can also conduct research on local climate, issues, and they can also, somewhat think of the solutions by talking to locals living there.

Obviously, without university administration's commitment, they're oh, okay. They're doing enough. How they're not doing? Yeah. So university administration do play a role in, climate, in administration.

University. Yes. Universities administration do play a role in commitment towards climate action. Even in our campus, there's a CRX called sustainable farming in which the like, there are only 20 to 25 people. They teach them on a small patch of land how to farm how to do farming effectively and sustainably.

But I think, the land the land and the number of students is very less for one semester. I and I think our college can do, like, better or, like, they can add more section towards this, CRX or something like Oh, so they can involve, local people. Also, they can take help from local people in, to, get to get into this CRX. I would like to see changes like there should be a stronger policies on renewable energy, waste management, and water conversions. There should be a good climate education, courses in colleges.

There should be, there should be collaboration with local government local community and local government governments government. Also, the funding which is used for this, these projects like waste management project or water conservation project should be increased. Yes. I think the universities do can influence the social attributes by they can yes. So, like, if you do add the if you add a course towards, so what?

So sorry. Sorry. Sorry. What was that? Yes.

The universities can influence social attributes by introducing new codes which will in turn give you graduates which are knowledgeable towards climate change, and they'll help the society they'll help the society to, tackle these climatic issues. Like our college is going to bring the next semester. They're going to Uh-huh. Yeah. So also our colleges is also doing is also going to add one master's course on on an SSC.

SSC. On an SSC program, which is called School of Climate Change. School of Climate Change. Which was started in 02/2019. Yes.

And this school and this school of climate change program was started in 2019. Also, these students will then, might go in research towards climate issues. They, also, the universities can partner with, with nearby go sorry. Local governments and nearby industries to implement sustainable practices. Yes.

Like, IIT Bombay had done some research on social, on solar energy and waste management, which has also influenced the local industries and municipal municipalities municipality. And also one university known as TERI University. It, it has a basic it basically has a whole sustainable campus. And this, and this campus also serves as benchmark towards other universities and institutes in India for growing a sustainable campus. Challenges will include limited funding, lack of awareness among the students and staff, the bureaucratic hurdles in implementing green policies, balancing development goals with environmental sustainability, and addressing regional challenges like air pollution, water scarcity, and waste management.

And then I'm not sure how universities can serve as models for society. As I'm a physics major, I have, like, no Opinion. Opinion on this question. I'm so sorry. So don't worry.